---
layout:     post
title:      "Powered by Jekyll"
subtitle:   "Initial thoughts on Jekyll"
date:       2014-12-08 21:40:00
author:     "GusBricker"
header-img: "img/post-bg-01.jpg"
---

Previously I have always hosted my websites using some sort of dynamic CMS such as Joomla or Wordpress. Whilst they are both nice platforms, they
can be kind of heavy weight and slow. Not to mention you have to constantly worry about security and database management.

Given that I have been using my Github account a lot latey as well and been hearing good things about Jekyll for a while now. I decided to give
it a shot. Not to mention it sweatens the deal that its free to host a Jekyll site with Github. The only real cost is if you want a custom domain.

Pointers
--------

**Locally install Jekyll:**

    gem install github-pages

This gets you all the same Ruby gems Github Pages uses.

    jekyll serve --watch

The above command launches builds and launches the site. Beware if your site has other prerequisites such a less scripts then you will have to build
those if they change.

**Clone locally a nicely themed Jekyll setup:** 

The Jekyll Github page lists some nice themes [here](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll/wiki/Themes). Experiment locally with this theme then once your happy, push to Github.

**Decide on a markdown format:**

There are so many different markdown formats available these days. Decide on one that your comfortable with is my advice.

**Build scripts:**

Consider setting up a build script to make your life easier. For example, this blog has some less scripts which generate css files. It doesn't take any noticable extra time to
build these everytime then build and launch the site.
