---
layout:     post
title:      "GTK Sharp 3 Adventures"
subtitle:   "Lessons learnt over time"
date:       2017-08-18
header-img: "img/code-bg-02.png"
---

GTK Sharp 3 is a good UI toolkit however as usual when you start to get deep
into these toolkits you often discover lots of not so obvious traps.


## Cairo Coordinate Modes

Cairo has two coordinate modes, Device and User.

- Device mode coordinates are relative to the display: 0,0 = top left corner of the display.
- User mode coordinates are relative to the widget: 0,0 = top left corner of the widget.


##  Basic overriding of OnDrawn() method:

We have to call ShouldDrawWindow() and TransformToWindow() to transform
the coordinate space from widget relative to display relative.
Without this transform the widget won't draw correctly when it is placed
in a ViewPort.

<!-- language: csharp -->
	protected override bool OnDrawn (Cairo.Context context)
	{
		if (Gtk.CairoHelper.ShouldDrawWindow (context, Window))
		{
			context.Save ();
			Gtk.CairoHelper.TransformToWindow (context, this, Window);

			// Draw stuff here!

			context.Restore ();
		}
	}


## Propagating Draw to children widgets

<!-- language: csharp -->
	foreach (Widget w in AllChildren)
	{
		context.Save ();
		PropagateDraw (w, context);
		context.Restore ();
	}


## Adding CSS to a Widget at Run Time

<!-- language: csharp -->
	public static CssProvider AddCss(Widget widget, string css)
	{
		CssProvider provider = new CssProvider ();
		provider.LoadFromData (css);
		widget.StyleContext.AddProvider (provider, 600);
		return provider;
	}


## Buttons Inherits Container

When you set the Image or Label property on a Button instance, you are either adding a Image or a Label to the container.
This means if you wanted to use Pango Markup on a Buttons text, you need to call Add() on the
Button instance with a new Label. For example:

<!-- language: csharp -->
    Label l = new Label();
    l.UseMarkup = true;
    l.Text = "<span foreground="blue" size="x-large">Blue text</span> is <i>cool</i>!""

    Button b = new Button();
    b.Add(l);
